Okay. In this third demo,
I'm doing something which is hopefully you're not going to use per se,
but this is something in order for you to believe with a hands-on experience that
actually columnar formats are faster than
row storage or columnar storage is faster than the normal row storage.
What I'm doing here is that I am getting Postgres,
but installing what's known as an extension to it.
I'm using this extension here,
it's an open-source extension called the C-Store fdw by Citus Data.
I'm using the demo they have provided here.
However, I am doing a comparison between a normal and a columnar storage.
So here I created a new database called reviews, connected to it,
and then downloaded sample data that they are demoing the columnar storage with.
Here, unzip the data and copy that in a place accessible by my database user.
Anyhow, the first step is that I am going to create a table with normal row storage.
So that's nothing strange about that table.
We don't even care about the schema,
we just see that this is a normal table.
We're doing a copy statement and we load two CSVs in it and we get those,
so that's close to a million row here plus another 500,000,
close to almost two million rows here.
Then, we create the other table with the columnar storage,
and here we have to load the extension for the columnar storage,
that's the syntax for doing this,
and we also have to load what's known as a c-store server.
Then, we create the table.
Here, this table is created in a different fashion because you have to say it's
a foreign table because it's actually not saved inside the native Postgres,
it's actually saved in a different storage formats.
So it's a foreign table and it's created this way
and I'm calling it customer reviews col.
The first one was called customer reviews row.
I will load the data into it and now we're ready for the head-to-head competition.
So I'm going to compare the performance here for the rows.
For a typical, I mean,
not very complicated one,
but has ranges and likes like pattern matching and simple filter.
That gets done in 217 milliseconds.
Here, I do that and I do that on the column and I get that in a 158 milliseconds.
So the conclusion is we can see that the columnar storage is faster.
Are we going to use this in reality or not?
Well, for the rest of the course,
we're going to be using Redshift.
Redshift has something similar to that,
another extension done by Redshift that actually implements columnar storage.
Actually, for example, in Redshift,
in most databases you're either finding it like columnar or row,
and the nice thing about having an extension here is that we can make both
there surviving the same database and we can compare them side-to-side.
I hope that was useful.